{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18620\viewh7500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here's what is going into the DB so far, with some explanation of what it is:\
\
TABLE = Songs\
VALUES = \
Title - TEXT - title of the song\
Artist - TEXT - name of the artist\
Path - TEXT - The file path of the physical song on your system. Not sure if we want to supplement this with the hash as well, or replace it entirely\
Beat_Average - REAL - average length of a beat in seconds. Essentially the same thing as tempo (which is in beats/min)\
Beat_Deviation - REAL - standard deviation of beat length. Very low, and we will have a very strong consistent beat, Very high and we will likely have a song that changes tempo, somewhere in the middle and we will basically have a bad drummer who isn't keeping good time\
Bars_Average - REAL - average length of a bar (measure) in seconds. Relevant to time signature. \
Bars_Deviation - REAL - In conjunction with beat deviation, a large SD here but a small beat SD probably means that time signature changes \
Danceability - REAL - Number between 0 and 1. One of the features I think we'd like to avoid using if possible \
Duration - REAL - Length of the song in seconds\
End_of_fade_in - REAL - theoretically the number of seconds before the intro of a song ends\
Energy - REAL - Number between 0 and 1. One of the features I think we'd like to avoid using if possible\
Key - INT - Number from 0 to 11 representing an estimation of the song's key. 0 = C, 1 = C#, etc.\
Key_Confidence - REAL - Between 0 and 1. How certain we can be that the key is correct\
Liveness - REAL - Number between 0 and 1. One of the features I think we'd like to avoid using if possible\
Loudness - REAL - Negative number. One of the features I think we'd like to avoid using if possible\
Mode - INT - 0 or 1. Represents whether the key is Major or Minor. I'm not sure which is actually which\
Mode_Confidence - REAL - confidence of Mode guess \
Offset_Seconds - INT - I've only seen INT values of this, but if it's truly seconds, than it seems REAL should be possible. Not sure what it actually represents\
Sections_Average - REAL - It attempts to separate the song into relatively similar sections. They represent rough approximations of song segments (intro, verse, chorus, bridge, solo, etc) I see a lot of potential information here. See below for more thoughts  \
Sections_Deviation - REAL - measure of the consistency of the length of sections\
Sections_Count - INT - Count of the total number of sections in a song\
Speechiness - REAL - Number between 0 and 1. One of the features I think we'd like to avoid using if possible. Rap music scores high, instrumental scores low\
Start_of_fade_out - REAL - number in seconds representing where the songs begins to end\
Tatums_Average - REAL - another way to divide the song up into pieces. These are very small (similar size to beats and segments). I haven't exactly made sense of how they're broken up, but they seem to be another way to evaluate rhythm. It may be useful to look at these in comparison to beats/tempo. I think a tatums/beats ratio may tell us something about the nature of the rhythm (syncopation, complexity, etc) \
Tatums_Deviation - REAL - consistency of the duration of tatums\
Tatums_Count - INT - Total number of tatums in a song\
Tempo - REAL - BPM\
Tempo_Confidence - REAL - Number between 0 and 1, represents the confidence of the beat. I suspect that a low confidence here will correlate to a high beat SD, meaning that the beat is inconsistent and hard to nail down \
Time_Signature - INT - Number of beats per bar (measure) \
Time_Signature_Confidence - REAL - Number between 0 and 1, representing confidence of Time Signature. Again, I suspect low confidence will correlate to high SD in beat and/or bar\
\
Any data that exists as a single value that seemed potentially useful got included. Where I see room for growth is the data that comes in arrays. They are:\
Beats\
Bars\
Segments\
Sections\
Tatums\
\
So far I have simply tried to get average durations and SD of these (except Segments, that one's more complicated). In some cases considering their averages as ratios to other elements of a song may be relevant. For example, the number of bars/section may be an interesting number that tells us about song structure. Let me know if there is any additional manipulation you'd like to see of this data. Sections in particular have a lot of potential. Paired with Segments (explained below) we could find out how different the different parts of a song are.\
\
Segments is possibly the most interesting data we have available. It is so dense that I haven't even begun to unpack and analyze it. It is essentially an array of each note in the song. It contains a volume measure, as well as pitch and timbre. We can basically extract numbers correlating to what a song sounds like. This is probably the next level of analysis that we will want to have for iteration 2.  \
\
\
\
Here is everything available from EchoNest with some explanation:\
\
analysis_channels		int 			useless\
analysis_sample_rate 	int 			probably useless\
analysis_url 			string		 	useless\
analyzer_version 		string of num 	useless\
artist				string			needed		artist name\
artist_Id			string			useless		could be subbed for artist name\
audio_md5			string			useless		also could be a sub\
bars				array			probably		list of bars with lengths and confidence\
beats				array			probably		list of beats with lengths and confidence\
bitrate				int			useless		\
cache				array			useless		empty\
code_version			float			not sure\
code_string			string			useless		very long, not sure what it is\
danceability			float  0 < 1		subjective		useful, but too compact\
decoder			string			useless		\
duration			float			useful			song length (probably not super useful)\
echoprint_version		float			useless\
echoprint_string		string			useless		very long, not sure what it is\
end_of_fade_in		float			useful			length of song intro, might want this as a ratio to song length\
energy			float  0 < 1		subjective		useful, but too compact\
get_attribute			object			useless		unsure what this is\
id				string			useless		possible to use as DB reference to the song\
key				int			useful			key of the song, not sure if we want this one\
key_confidence		float 0 < 1		useful			could be used to augment weighting of key\
liveness			float  0 < 1		subjective		useful, but too compact\
loudness			float < 0		subjective		maybe useful\
md5				string			useless		not sure\
meta				array			useless		contains stuff like artist, album, genre from the file\
mode				int			not sure		not sure what this is (may be minor or major)\
mode_confidence		float 0 < 1		not sure		confidence of mode\
num_samples		int			useless		relative to size of file\
offset_seconds		int			not sure\
post_attribute		object			useless\
release			string			useless		Theoretically the album the track was released on\
sample_md5			string			useless\
samplerate			int			useless\
sections			array			useful			breaks the song into pieces based on similarity, has length and confidence\
segments			array			useful			breaks the song into pieces based on similarity. many more than sections\
song_id			string			useless\
speechiness			float 0 < 1		subjective		useful but too compact\
start_of_fade_out		float			useful			estimation of when the song begins to fade out\
complete			string			useless		not sure what this is\
synch_version		float			useless\
synch_string			string			useless 		long\
tatums			array			useful			another division of songs, seems to be similar to beats\
tempo				float			useful\
tempo_confidence		float 0 < 1		useful\
time_signature		int			useful\
time_signature_confidence	float 0 < 1		useful\
title				string			not sure\
window_seconds		int 			useless\
			\
\
\
}